OH, WELCOME TO
THE WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5TH.
IT'S MY MOM'S BIRTHDAY TODAY
REGULAR MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION.
MY NAME, WHICH I'LL BE CHAIRING
THE MEETING TONIGHT FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION MEETING
PROCEDURES.
>> PLEASE REVIEW THE FULL
PRINTED MEETING AGENDA MANAGER
LEONARD, WOULD YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL WITH OF COURSE WHICH
HERE IS TRAYVON'S HERE
SECRETARY HAMMERSCHMIDT BECAUSE
ABSENT COMMISSIONER LEE ABSENT
COMMISSIONER DASH HERE I HEAR
YOU COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE,
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE HERE,
COMMISSIONER ADAMS ABSENT MR.
NORTON IS ABSENT.
>> WE HAVE FIVE PERCENT WHICH
IS A QUORUM.
IT WOULD REQUIRE FIVE VOTES TO
FURTHER AN ACTION ALTHOUGH
STAFF IS RECOMMENDING
POSTPONEMENT.
>> SO I DON'T THINK THAT'LL BE
A BIG DEAL FOR YOU THIS EVENING
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
M. SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WHETHER BE IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION?
>> OH, THAT'S THE AGENDA.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY
ANY OPPOSING THE MOTION
CARRIES.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE
OCTOBER 16TH?
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MINUTE MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES SEEING NONE ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY I ANY OPPOSE THE
MOTION CARRIES NEXT ARE THE
REPORTS TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH ASKED THAT YOU GO FIRST
MR. LEONARD.
>> SO CAN WE HAVE THE MANAGER
REPORT?
YEAH, ALTHOUGH IT'S NOT GOING
TO BE VERY HELPFUL FOR HER.
I DON'T HAVE TOO MUCH FOR YOU
JUST A REMINDER TO OUR NIELSEN
RAIDER'S THAT WE ARE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS OUT FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT.
PLEASE MAKE SURE YOU DIRECT ANY
COMMENTS YOU HAVE TO OUR
AVAILABLE FORUM ON THE ENGAGE
ANN ARBOR WEBSITE THAT IS THE
BEST WAY FOR US TO TAKE YOUR
FEEDBACK AND MAKE SURE IT GETS
SHARED BROADLY WITH PLANNING
COMMISSION AND EVENTUALLY THE
CITY COUNCIL.
AND YOU'LL ALSO AS A BONUS TO
FIND OUT ABOUT A LOT OF OTHER
GREAT OPPORTUNITIES FOR PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT WITH CITY RELATED
PROJECTS.
THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH THANK YOU
CHAIR WIRCH.
OK, SO ACTUALLY CITY COUNCIL
DID A LOT ON OCTOBER 20TH IT
APPROVED THE REZONING FROM
PARKING TO SEE ONE AT THE ARGUS
FARM STOP IT APPROVED THE
CRESCENT REZONING AND SITE PLAN
IT PASSED FROM FIRST TO SECOND
READING THE REZONING OF ONE
ACRE FROM TOWNSHIP TO R-1 AT
ONE AT ELEVEN FIFTY FIVE
ARLINGTON BOULEVARD AND THERE
WAS A MARIJUANA APPROVAL
COMMISSION AND HAD RECOMMENDED
TO MODIFICATIONS TO MARIJUANA
BUSINESSES CITY COUNCIL
CONSIDER THAT ON FIRST READING
THEY DID MAKE SOME
MODIFICATIONS TO THE ORDINANCE
AS IT WAS PRESENTED AND PASS
THAT ON TO SECOND READING.
>> OK AND OH RIGHT IT WAS A 100
FOOT SEPARATION THAT WAS THAT
WAS PROPOSED AND APPROVED AND
THAT'S IT.
BUT TOMORROW NIGHT WILL BE VERY
EXCITING FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO
ARE LOOKING FOR THE FORWARD TO
POTENTIALLY THE BIRTH OF OUR
FIRST DC ONE PROJECT.
>> SO AUTO ON OCTOBER 20TH THE
CITY COUNCIL FORMALLY APPROVED
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR
DISTRIBUTION SORRY A LITTLE
PROJECT YOU'VE BEEN WORKING ON
FOR A BIT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONER OFFICERS OR
COMMITTEE LIAISONS WHO HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT?
>> ALL RIGHT.
SEE NONE WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS
ARE AVAILABLE IN TODAY'S
PACKAGE.
>> THEY ARE ALSO AVAILABLE IN
REGISTAR.
JUST GO TO GOV DOT LEGISLATOR
DOT ORIGO COM WHICH IS THAT ORG
WORK.
THANK YOU.
AND THEN SEARCH FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION AND THEN
IT'S IN REVERSE CHRONOLOGICAL
ORDER AND YOU CAN FIND TODAY'S
AGENDA AND ALL OF THE
ATTACHMENTS THERE.
THAT BRINGS US TO ITEM NUMBER
SIX AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ISSUES NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING OR A
DEDICATED PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
OF YOU WHO ARE PRESENT HERE IN
THE CHAMBERS.
THEN WE WILL TURN TO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS IF YOU WILL WANT
TO SPEAK REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE IF ON PHONE OR USE A
RACE HAND FEATURE IF ON ZOOM
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND MEETING
ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY THEIR NAME IF THEY'RE USING
THE ZOOM FEATURE YOU WILL HEAR
AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBERS WHO'D LIKE TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AT THIS
TIME
SEEING NONE?
>> DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS?
>> WE DO NOT SEEING THAT WE
HAVE NO REMOTE PARTICIPANTS.
I AM CLOSING THE PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD THAT TAKES US TO ITEM
NUMBER SEVEN COMMUNICATION FROM
COMMISSIONERS.
>> IS THERE ANY SEEING WE WILL
HEAR FROM MR. LEONARD ABOUT OUR
PUBLIC HEARING SCHEDULED FOR
THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING AS
FORESHADOWED WITH MY COMMENT
ABOUT THIS EVENING'S PUBLIC
HEARING, OUR ITEM
RECOMMENDATION FOR POSTPONEMENT
WE HAVE REPUBLISHED THE
PROPOSED ORDINANCE CHANGES FOR
A PUBLIC HEARING ON NOVEMBER
18TH.
THIS WOULD BE AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE POINT
NINETEEN POINT ONE PARKING
REQUIREMENTS SECTION FIVE POINT
NINETEEN POINT TWO REQUIRED
PARKING SECTION FIVE POINT
NINETEEN POINT THREE SPECIAL
PARKING DISTRICTS SECTION FIVE
POINT NINETEEN POINT FIVE USE
OF PARKING FACILITIES AND
SECTION FIVE POINT NINETEEN
POINT SEVEN DESIGN OF BICYCLE
PARKING FACILITIES CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE TO MODIFY SECTIONS TO
CONDENSE VEHICLE PARKING
REQUIREMENT TABLES CONDENSE AN
UPDATE BICYCLE PARKING
REQUIREMENT TABLES AND TO
IMPROVE USABILITY, DESIGN AND
ACCESSIBILITY OF PARKING
BICYCLE PARKING FACILITIES.
THANK YOU MR. LEONARD SAYING
THERE IS NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS
WHICH TAKES US TO REGULAR
BUSINESS BIKE AND VEHICULAR
PARKING ORDINANCE AMENDMENT AND
ORDINANCE TO AMEND MULTIPLE
MULTIPLE SECTIONS OF FIVE POINT
ONE NINE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
TO UPDATE THE PECULIAR PARKING
REQUIREMENTS BIKE BICYCLE
PARKING REQUIREMENTS AND TO
IMPROVE USABILITY, DESIGN AND
ACCESSIBILITY OF BICYCLE
PARKING FACILITIES.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
POSTPONEMENT TO NOVEMBER 18TH,
OUR NEXT REGULAR MEETING AND WE
WILL START WITH A PUBLIC
PRESENTATION.
ALL RIGHT.
SO YES, STAFF HAS BEEN WORKING
ON UPDATES TO THE BICYCLE
PARKING ORDINANCE AS PART
OF THE WORK PLAN TO MAKE
BICYCLE PARKING FACILITIES IN
THE CITY AND THE ORDINANCE MORE
USER FRIENDLY AND STAFF HAS
BROUGHT SOME OF THE PROPOSED
ORDINANCE CHANGES TO SEE A FEW
TIMES AND THESE MEMOS ARE
INCLUDED, HOWEVER, IN PREPARING
TONIGHT'S MATERIAL, STAFF
DECIDED TO NOTICE MORE SECTIONS
.
SO TONIGHT THE RECOMMENDATION
IS POSTPONEMENT UNTIL NOVEMBER
18TH FOR A FULL DISCUSSION.
SO I'LL TAKE NOTES IF THERE'S
ANYTHING THAT COMMISSIONERS
WANT TO BRING UP NEXT TIME OR
ANY ADDITIONAL MATERIALS THAT
YOU'D LIKE STAFF TO PREPARE FOR
THE 18TH.
BUT TONIGHT WE'LL JUST KEEP IT
HIGH LEVEL SO JUST A QUICK
OVERVIEW OF WHAT'S INCLUDED IN
THE PACKAGE TONIGHT WHICH WILL
BRING TO THE NOVEMBER 18TH
MEETING.
THERE'S THE STAFF REPORT AND
ALSO THE NRC MEMOS AND A DRAFT
ORDINANCE WITH CHANGES
INCLUDING A SIMPLIFIED REQUIRED
BICYCLE PARKING TABLE WITH
BARRIER FREE PARKING
REQUIREMENTS, INCREASED
REQUIREMENTS FOR MULTIFAMILY
DEVELOPMENTS AND DECREASED
REQUIREMENTS IN THE DOWNTOWN
DISTRICT'S ALSO LANGUAGE
CLARIFYING LOCATIONS FOR
CLASSES BICYCLE PARKING, A
REFORMATTED DESIGN OF ISAKOV
PARKING FACILITIES SECTION TO
CLARIFY REQUIREMENTS AND
LANGUAGE CLARIFYING ACCESS AND
ENCOURAGING WAYFINDING SIGNAGE
.
IT ALSO INCLUDES AS AS PART
OF THE BICYCLE PARKING PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS WERE INCLUDING A
SEPARATE TABLE.
RIGHT NOW THE PARKING TABLES
ARE COMBINED VEHICLE AND
BICYCLE SO WE PROPOSE A
SIMPLIFIED BICYCLE PARKING
TABLE AND IN THAT WE'RE ALSO
PROPOSING TO SIMPLIFY THE
VEHICLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
TABLE WHILE WE'RE DOING THIS
REFORMATTING THERE ARE NO MAJOR
CHANGES TO THE REQUIREMENTS FOR
THE VEHICLE.
PARKING STAFF MADE SOME VALUE
JUDGMENTS BUT IT'S MAINLY
REFORMATTING FOR WHAT IS RIGHT
NOW SIX SIX PAGE TABLE WITH A
LOT OF REQUIREMENTS THAT ARE
THE SAME.
>> SO JUST CONDENSING ROSE AND
THAT'S THAT'S ALL I'LL SAY FOR
TONIGHT.
AND IF THERE IS ANYTHING ELSE
YOU WANT ME TO TAKE DOWN FOR
NEXT TIME, I'LL DO THAT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT
PRESENTATION.
WE'LL GO TO THE PUBLIC HEARING.
>> THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY AND
THERE WILL BE ANOTHER
OPPORTUNITY NEXT WEEK, OK?
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK TO THREE
MINUTES ON THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS TO SECTION FIVE
POINT NINETEEN PARKING
REQUIREMENTS.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT THEN
REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF ON PHONE OR
USE THE RACE HAND FEATURE IF ON
ZOOM FOR PHONE ACCESS DIAL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME.
>> IF ON ZOOM YOU WILL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS WHETHER IN THE
CHAMBERS OR ON LINE.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME SEEING
NO ONE IN CHAMBERS?
>> DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS?
>> NO.
SEEING THAT WE HAVE NO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS I WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
>> THE MOTION IS THE ANN ARBOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
THE CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT
NINETEEN TO MODIFY AND UPDATE
THE REQUIRED PARKING TABLES AND
TO MAKE REQUIRED DESIGN
OF BICYCLE PARKING FACILITIES
USER MORE USER FRIENDLY MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S IT IS A
TEST.
>> IS THERE ANY INITIAL
FEEDBACK THAT WHO WANTS TO KICK
US OFF?
I GUESS WE'LL START WITH YOU
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE AND
THEN WE'LL GO TO MR. DID YOU
WANT TO GO?
>> I JUST WANTED TO I'M SORRY
FOR THE CONFUSION AS AS WE AS
YOU KNOW SOMETIMES WE ARE OFTEN
TRYING TO MODERNIZE OUR
LANGUAGE AND I JUST WANT TO
COMMEND MARIANNE HAS DONE SOME
GREAT RESEARCH AND LEGWORK ON
UPDATING OUR BICYCLE PARKING
FACILITIES AND GETTING TO THAT
FOUND AN OPPORTUNITY TO IMPROVE
THE USABILITY OF ALL OF OUR
PARKING REGULATIONS.
>> AS I ONE HUNDRED PERCENT WAS
GOING DOWN THAT ROAD WE DID SO
BUT THAT MEANT WE NEEDED A
NOTICE TO BE FULLY TRANSPARENT
THAT WE WERE GOING TO BE
LOOKING AT SOME ADDITIONAL
SECTIONS OF THE CODE .
SO I JUST WANTED TO EXPRESS MY
APOLOGIES FOR THE CONFUSION TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE
PUBLIC AND THAT'S THE RATIONALE
ABOUT WHY WE NEEDED TO DO SO.
>> THANK YOU, MR. LEARNER.
>> COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
OK, SO I JUST HAD A COUPLE AS I
WAS READING THROUGH SO ONE AND
THIS PROBABLY HAS BEEN
COVERED BY THE AARTHI BUT UH SO
THE NUMBER OF REQUIRED SPACES
IN D1 AND D2 DISTRICTS IS
DECREASED BECAUSE OF THE
EXISTING PARKING IN THE AREA
AND I GUESS I HEAR ANECDOTALLY
A LOT OF PEOPLE SAY THAT THEY
WILL HAVE A REALLY HARD TIME
FINDING BIKE PARKING DOWNTOWN
AND SO IS THIS TRUE LIKE I MEAN
OR IS YOU KNOW, IS IT AVAILABLE
OPEN SPACES FOR PEOPLE?
>> ARE THEY ARE THEY LIKE BIKE
LOCKERS YOU ALREADY HAVE THAT
YOU HAVE TO HAVE PAID FOR LIKE
IS I JUST THAT WAS SOMETHING
THAT WAS I WAS SURPRISED TO
SEE.
>> YEAH.
AND I THINK THAT'S BECAUSE
WE'RE LOOKING AT CLASS A FOR
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENTS AND SO WE
DID SOME RESEARCH AND PRESENTED
TO TO THE RC AND WE WENT TO ALL
THESE BIKE ROOMS IN THE
DOWNTOWN AND WE TALK TO PEOPLE
AND WE'RE REALIZING THAT
ESPECIALLY BECAUSE WE'RE
LOOKING AT THE CLASS, WE'RE
LOOKING AT THESE NEW STUDENT
HIGHRISES THAT WE'RE REQUIRING
THEM TO PROVIDE SO MUCH BIKE
PARKING AND THE FACILITIES THAT
WE LOOKED AT WEREN'T BEING USED
BECAUSE WE HEARD THAT PEOPLE
WEREN'T BRINGING BIKES TO
CAMPUS BECAUSE THEY HAD OR THEY
HAD AVAILABILITY ON CAMPUS TO
PARK BIKES THEY HAD THEY WERE
JUST WALKING PLACES BECAUSE
THOSE EASY THINGS LIKE THAT
IT'S PROBABLY TRUE THAT PEOPLE
CAN'T FIND BIKE PARKING, PUBLIC
BIKE PARKING WHEN THEY'RE
BIKING DOWNTOWN FOR EVENTS AND
RESTAURANTS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
BUT IN TERMS OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
LIVING DOWNTOWN AND THE BIKE
FACILITIES WE'RE REGULATING
DOWNTOWN, WE'RE SEEING THAT
THERE'S THERE THERE'S TOO MUCH
OK, OK.
AND THEN THE SECOND ONE WAS THE
EXEMPTION.
SO THE FOLLOWING PRIMARY USERS
HAVE NO REQUIRED BICYCLE
PARKING, ADULT FOSTER CARE
EMERGENCY SHELTER, FUNERAL
SERVICES, PARKS RECREATION AND
OPEN SPACE TRANSPORTATION
FACILITIES, AGRICULTURE AND
OUTDOOR STORAGE.
AND I DON'T KNOW WHY LIKE ALL
OF THOSE FOR THE MOST PART SEEM
TO ME PLACES WHERE PEOPLE WOULD
VISIT OR WORK AND I DIDN'T KNOW
WHY THOSE WERE CALLED OUT IN
WAYS LIKE I THINK PARKS
RECREATION AND OPEN SPACE LIKE
IT WOULD BE SUPER HELPFUL TO
HAVE REGULATE.
SO I JUST WASN'T SURE WHY THIS
GROUP THE ACCESSORY USES.
>> I KIND OF UNDERSTOOD A
LITTLE BIT MORE BUT I WASN'T
SURE WHY THOSE WERE
SPECIFICALLY CALLED OUT.
>> YEAH, THE ONLY REASON THAT
THOSE ARE SPECIFICALLY CALLED
OUT ARE BECAUSE THEY ARE ONLY
SIX OR SEVEN USES ON OUR
CURRENT PARKING TABLE THAT HAVE
NO REQUIRED BICYCLE PARKING.
SO IT WAS A CARRY OVER OF THE
EXISTING REQUIREMENTS BUT WE
CAN TAKE ANOTHER LOOK AT IT
BECAUSE I JUST I JUST DON'T
LIKE IT JUST DOESN'T MAKE SENSE
TO ME WHY THOSE PARTICULARLY
SHOULD BE CALLED OUT.
YOU KNOW, JUST ADD LIKE THAT
ONLY RELATES TO PUBLIC
RECREATION, PUBLIC RECREATION
WOULD NOT BE SUBJECT TO ZONING
SO THAT THAT MIGHT BE ONE
REASON BUT THAT WOULD NOT APPLY
TO ADULT FOSTER CARE HOMES AND
THE OTHERS.
>> SO YEAH, WE CAN WE CAN LOOK
AT THAT.
>> COMMISSIONER MILLS ALL RIGHT
THEN COMMISSIONER MS.
>> I'LL START WITH JUST A MINOR
QUESTION WHICH IS IN THE
ORDINANCE LANGUAGE SORRY I
THOUGHT I HAD THE PAGE AND I
JUST LOST IT.
>> BUT IS WAYFINDING OPTIONAL?
I THINK IT SAYS SHOULD IS THE
LANGUAGE SO THAT MEANS WE
SUGGEST BUT IT'S NOT REQUIRED.
>> YEAH IT'S SUPPOSED TO MUST
BE OK.
>> YEAH WE HEARD FROM A LOT
OF PEOPLE THAT WAYFINDING
SIGNAGE WOULD BE HELPFUL BUT IN
INTERNAL DISCUSSIONS WE FOUND
THAT THERE COULD BE A LOT
OF CONFLICT WITH SIGN CODE AND
SO WE'RE TRYING TO ENCOURAGE IT
BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT PEOPLE
WANT IT BUT WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT
REQUIREMENTS HAVING CONFLICTS
WITH SIGN CODE OK AND THE NEXT
THING WAS ADAM GOODMAN
SUBMITTED SOME FEEDBACK VIA
EMAIL, SOME OF WHICH I FOUND
HELPFUL TO AGREE WITH.
SO I WANTED TO ELEVATE SOME
OF THAT HERE.
SO ONE WAS IN THE INTENT
STATEMENT OR DESCRIPTION
OF CLASS A, IT SAYS THAT IT'S
TYPICALLY INTENDED FOR
RESIDENTS AND THEN CLASS B IS
AS INTENDED FOR PLACE
OF EMPLOYMENT CLASSY CUSTOMERS
AND VISITORS.
>> I GUESS I JUST WONDERED WHY
WHAT WE GAIN BY INCLUDING THAT
SPECIFICITY WHEN YOU MIGHT AT
SOME POINT WANT CLASS A AT YOUR
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT OR CLASS B
FOR YOUR RESIDENTS LIKE IS
THERE ANY BUT WHAT AM I MISSING
ABOUT WHY IT WOULD BE IMPORTANT
TO INCLUDE AS OPPOSED TO JUST
LEAVE IT OUT AND LEAVE IT ABOUT
LONG TERM, MEDIUM TERM AND
SHORT?
>> YEAH, I DON'T I DON'T THINK
THERE'S IT'S IT'S NOT REQUIRED
TO HAVE IT.
IT WAS JUST A WAY THAT WE WERE
THINKING ABOUT THE THREE
DIFFERENT CLASSES SO IT'S JUST
A WAY THAT WE WERE FRAMING IT
BUT WE CAN WE CAN TAKE A LOOK
AT IT OK YEAH I WOULD JUST
PERSONALLY PROBABLY SUPPORT
STRIKING THAT SPECIFICITY AND
THEN I JUST WANTED TO ALSO
AGREE WITH THE COMMISSIONER
WHETHER IT BE ABOUT MAYBE
REQUIRING BICYCLE PARKING AT
SOME OF THESE EXEMPTIONS.
BUT MR. LEINERT, WERE YOU
SAYING WE CAN'T REQUIRE AT PARK
BECAUSE IT'S NOT SUBJECT TO ANY
OTHER PUBLIC PARKS ARE NOT
SUBJECT TO ZONING ANY PRIVATE
OR PRIVATE OFFICE OR PRIVATE
PARK WE COULD WRITE AND THEN
TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES DOES
THAT INCLUDE LIKE THE TRAIN
STATION?
SO AGAIN, IF THAT WAS A PUBLIC
FACILITY I WOULD NOT BE SUBJECT
TO ZONING.
BUT LIKE THE AMTRAK STATION
PUBLIC OK, I THINK IT'S A
PUBLIC RIGHT.
>> I THINK IT'S ON A PUBLIC
RAILWAY.
OK, THAT ISN'T KNOW THAT WELL
I'LL I'LL LET YOU ALL FIGURE IT
OUT BUT IF IT'S LIKE A BUS
STATION, THE TRAIN STATION, A
PRIVATE PARK I THINK THOSE ARE
PRIME LOCATIONS FOR PARKING AND
THEN I ALSO AGREE WITH THE
MAJORITY SUSPICION ABOUT THERE
NOT BEING ENOUGH CLASS C
PARKING DOWNTOWN.
SO I UNDERSTAND THE REDUCTION
IN CLASS A BUT I'M WONDERING
WHETHER YOU CONSIDERED AN
INCREASE IN CLASSI OR IF
THERE'S ANOTHER WAY THROUGH THE
DAY TO GET AN INCREASE IN CLASS
C?
YEAH, I THINK THE THE APPROACH
THAT WE GENERALLY TAKEN
OF DOWNTOWN IS THAT WE HAVE THE
REQUIREMENTS IN THE CODE BUT
THE D ARE THEY ARE ENFORCED AND
THEY ARE THE ONES WHO DETERMINE
THE DESIGN AND THEY HELP US
WITH LOCATION AND THINGS LIKE
THAT AND THEY THEY HAVE THEIR
NEW BICYCLE PARKING GUIDELINES
THAT WERE JUST RECENTLY
PUBLISHED.
>> OK, I HAVE TWO MORE THINGS
I'LL BE QUICK.
SO ONE IS ALSO WHAT I THINK
IT'S GREAT THAT WE'RE PROVIDING
ILLUSTRATIONS OF BY CRACK'S
WHICH ARE PROHIBITED BUT I
WONDER ABOUT BEING MORE
EXPLICIT IF NOT REGULATORY
ABOUT WHICH DRUGS ARE APPROVED.
SO I KNOW DON IS THE ONE WHO
FIRST TAUGHT ME ABOUT THE
BOSTON WRECK.
SO WOULD YOU CALL IT THE POST
RING?
>> RIGHT.
THAT'S WHAT THAT ONE IS OR
WHETHER WE SHOULD YEAH.
MAYBE I WOULD ENCOURAGE US TO
BE MORE FORTHCOMING ABOUT THE
KINDS OF ROCKS THAT WE THINK
HAVE A PROVEN TRACK RECORD
OF BEING GOOD WEATHER WHETHER
WE WANT TO JUST SUGGEST THEM OR
REQUIRE THEM I DON'T KNOW BUT
LIKE OR HAVE ONES WHICH ARE
PREAPPROVE VERSUS DISCRETIONARY
APPROVAL OR SOMETHING.
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT FELL INTO
WHEN WE WERE HAVING
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT WHAT SHOULD
BE INCLUDED IN CODE AND WHAT
SHOULD MAYBE BE PART OF A GUIDE
THAT WE HAVE ON THE WEBSITE OR
AVAILABLE THAT'S LINKED TO THE
CODE SO THAT WE HAVE MORE
FLEXIBILITY TO CHANGE AND
UPDATE WHAT WE ENCOURAGE AND
WHAT WE THINK HAS WORKED.
SO I THINK WE ENDED UP ON THE
SIDE OF THOSE MAYBE FALL MORE
INTO GUIDELINES THAN INTO
SOMETHING THAT WE SHOULD BE
INCLUDED IN THE CODE .
BUT WE CAN TAKE A LOOK AT IT.
>> OK, ACTUALLY THAT'S ALL IN
THERE.
THANKS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU
FOR THIS WORK.
THIS IS REALLY GREAT.
I WANTED TO JUST ECHO WHAT
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS JUST SAID
ABOUT WHAT'S PERMITTED BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT I COULD NOT FIND.
I COULD SEE WHAT IS PROHIBITED
SO I WOULD LIKE TO PLUS ONE IF
THERE IS MORE GUIDANCE THAT THE
CODE CAN GIVE TO DEVELOPERS OR
FOLKS WHO ARE INSTALLING THESE
UNITS, WHICH ONES WE WOULD
PREFER TO SEE WITHIN THE CITY
MAYBE FOR OUR WORK PLAN, WHAT
DOES IT LOOK LIKE TO TALK TO
THE D.A. ABOUT BIOAVAILABILITY
IN THE DOWNTOWN CORRIDOR
BECAUSE THAT IS OR EXCUSE ME
BIKE PARKING AVAILABILITY IN
THE DOWNTOWN CORRIDOR BECAUSE
THAT IS AN ISSUE BECAUSE THERE
IS NOT A LOT OF BIKE PARKING.
I HAVE OFTEN HAD TO ATTACH MY
BIKE TO A TREE AND LIKE RUN MY
LOCKS THROUGH MY BIKE IN ORDER
TO MAKE THAT WORK.
I HAVE A QUESTION ALSO ABOUT
ENFORCEMENT SO A NOT TO BE
NAMED GROSER THAT IS NEAR MY
HOUSE HAS ONE OF THESE WAVE
RACKS AND IT WAS IN DISREPAIR
FOR A VERY LONG TIME AND THEN
IT GOT REPAIRED BUT IT IS
ALWAYS BLOCKED SO WHO IS OUR
ENFORCEMENT AGENT CITYWIDE?
>> I THINK IT'S US BUT HOW DOES
THAT ACTUALLY WORK?
AND ONCE WE ADOPT THIS, WILL A
NOTICE GO OUT TO A PREEXISTING
WAVE BIKE RACK PROVIDERS TO SAY
IT'S NOW OUT OF CODE AND WILL
THEY UPDATE SO TWO THINGS.
ONE, LAW ENFORCEMENT OF ANY
TYPE PLAN TO BE YES.
BUT I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE CLEAR ANY ZONING CHANGES
OUR PERSPECTIVE.
>> SO SO WE'RE GOING TO ALLOW
IT TO BE A NON CONFORMING USE.
THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
BUT IF THEY CHANGE ANYTHING
THEY'LL HAVE TO BRING IT UP TO
CODE DEPENDING ON THE
APPLICABILITY OF OUR PARKING
SECTION.
>> SO ONE OF THE COMPLEXITIES
OF OUR ORDINANCE IS WE HAVE A
LITTLE BIT NUANCE ABOUT WHICH
SECTIONS APPLY AUTOMATICALLY
WHICH APPLY TO LIKE A DISTURBED
AREA.
BUT GENERALLY YES, WHEN YOU
WOULD CITE PLANET THEN THAT
WOULD COME INTO PLAY THAT THAT
ISN'T A LIMITATION AS YOU SAID
BECAUSE IF ANYTHING IT'S LIKE
PLAYING WITH LIKE PARKING BEING
REQUIRED AND IT'S BEING
BLOCKED.
THAT IS A POTENTIAL ENFORCEMENT
ACTION REGARDLESS.
>> SURE.
AND I JUST AS I WAS THINKING
ABOUT THIS, AN EMPLOYER OF MINE
HAS ONE OF THESE WAVE RACKS SO
WE SHOULD DEFINITELY GET THAT
REMEDIATED IF WE CAN.
>> OK, ANYTHING ELSE FROM THE
TABLE
?
I THINK THE OTHER THING THAT
IT'S IN YOUR REPORT BUT I DON'T
KNOW IF I SAW IT AS EXPLICIT
LEE WHICH WAS I KNOW YOU DID
THE SITE VISITS BUT DID YOU
REPORT ON WHAT THE AVERAGE
USAGE WAS ACROSS THE SITES THAT
YOU LOOKED AT THAT IS INCLUDED
IN THE JULY OR SEE MEMO WHICH
IS A PACKET TO READ
COMMISSIONER MILLS?
>> RELATEDLY I IT'S SORRY I
LOVE ADL BUT THE PARKING
DOWNTOWN IS THE DIMENSIONS
OF IT ARE SUCH THAT IT'S REALLY
AWKWARD TO GET A BIKE ON
BECAUSE OF THE CURB AND I DON'T
ACTUALLY WAS AT THE HOSPITAL
TODAY AND THEY HAD THE SAME
SITUATION WHERE YOU CAN'T
REALLY FIT YOUR BIKE IN.
I DON'T THINK THAT THIS
ADDRESSES THE CLEARANCE ON
EITHER SIDE DOES LIKE IT US
THERE IS AISLE CLEARANCE I'M
NOT AND THEN THERE IS THERE ARE
DEMENTO AND I DON'T I DON'T
KNOW IF THE ONES THAT YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT IF THEY WOULD FIT
THE DEMAND.
OK, SO THERE ARE DIMENSIONS BUT
I DON'T KNOW I'LL HAVE TO I'LL
HAVE TO GO LOOK BUT I MEAN IT'S
ALL OF THE TIME SOME PEOPLE
HAVE THEIR FRONT WHEEL UP ON
THE CURB LIKE AT THE DOWNTOWN
BRANCH AND SOMETIMES NOT AND
IT'S REALLY AWKWARD IF YOU
DON'T HAVE A KICKSTAND OR JUST
THE ONES OUT IN FRONT ONE WHICH
ARE LIKE FINE TILL YOU'RE ABLE
TO LOCK.
IT'S JUST THE DIMENSIONS TO GET
YOUR BIKE IN THERE ARE AWKWARD
.
>> OK, YEAH WE'LL LOOK AT THOSE
ANYWAY JUST IN CASE BECAUSE
THAT IS BRAKE I DON'T KNOW YOU
GUYS ARE ALSO LIBRARY USERS IS
THAT NOT A PAIN POINT FOR YOU
GUYS?
>> I HAVEN'T BIKE TO THE
LIBRARY IN A WHILE SO OH BY WAY
OF CONFESSION OK TRY IT ON THE
BICYCLE HIGHWAY DENEL OK ALL
RIGHT NOT THE DOWN TO I MEAN
YEAH I DON'T LIKE TO GO THE
DOWNTOWN ONE.
YES MUCH SO COMMISSIONER I HAVE
USED IT AND DON'T REMEMBER
BEING PARTICULARLY FRUSTRATED
BY IT BUT NO BUT IT MIGHT I
MIGHT JUST HAVE NOT REGISTERED
SO MUCH UM BUT IN GENERAL YEAH
IT IS HARD TO FIND DOWNTOWN ONE
IS ALWAYS PARKING.
>> YEAH WALKING THINGS TO
TREES.
>> YEAH I KNOW I KNOW THE
FORTRESS OK WITH THAT I WILL
ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO POSTPONE
UH LET'S START WITH YOU
COMMISSIONER M. I WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION TO POSTPONE THIS
ITEM UNTIL NOVEMBER 18TH.
>> ALL RIGHT.
AND SECOND IT BY COMMISSIONER
OR COUNCIL MEMBER DISH IS THERE
ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONEMENT SEEING NONE.
CAN WE JUST DO A VOICE VOTE?
YES.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY
ANY OPPOSE THE MOTION CARRIES
THAT TAKES US TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER ELEVEN CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION CALENDAR REVIEW.
>> WE HAVE A PRESENTATION OR
ARE WE JUST LOOKING AT REGISTAR
?
>> YOU HAVE TO I'LL GIVE YOU AN
OVERVIEW.
THIS ACTION WOULD INVOLVE AN
ADOPTION OF AN AMENDMENT TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION CALENDAR
THAT WOULD MOVE TO MEETINGS ON
NOVEMBER 18TH AND DECEMBER 16TH
TO A FIVE THIRTY PM START TIME
.
I'M FEELING INSPIRED BY ALL
THIS CANDY YOUR BRAIN SO I JUST
WANT TO SPEND MORE TIME WITH
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I WILL ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE CALENDAR AS AMENDED
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER M.
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
WE'LL DO A VOICE VOTE ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY I AY ANY OPPOSE
THE MOTION CARRIES THAT BRINGS
US TO ITEM NUMBER TWO.
>> OH NO I KNOW IT'S WEIRD IT
IS HAPPENING I CAN I CAN THE
CHAIR RECOGNIZES COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE WE JUST STILL HAVE
THE THE CANCELED NOVEMBER 12TH
ON OUR HONOR.
>> OH YEAH MY APOLOGIES.
YOU HAVE ALREADY TAKEN ACTION.
WE'VE ALREADY CANCELED THAT
MEETING SO WE'LL STRIKE THAT
BEFORE WE PUBLISH THE UPDATED
CALENDAR THAT HAS BEEN NOTICED.
>> OK, GREAT.
>> THAT NOW BRINGS US TO AGENDA
ITEM NUMBER TWELVE.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
OF YOU WHO ARE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBER THEN WE'LL TURN TO
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS IF THERE
ARE ANY TO SPEAK REMOTELY STAR
NINE F ON PHONE OR USE THE RACE
HAND FEATURE ON ZOOME FOR PHONE
ACCESS DIAL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO FOUR
SEVEN AND EIGHT AND INNER
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBERS
OR BY NAME FOR THEM USERS YOU
WILL HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA
AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE
FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS I SEE MR.
VSQUEZ HERE SO I WON'T ASK IF
THERE IS ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS US.
>> YOU HAVE THE FLOOR.
THANK YOU CHAIRMAN WIRCH AND
GREETINGS TO ALL COMMISSIONERS
AND STAFF.
I JUST WANTED TO ONCE AGAIN
THANK YOU FOR ALL THE HARD WORK
THAT YOU PUT INTO THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
I WATCHED THIS PROCESS FROM THE
VERY BEGINNING MORE THAN IT'S
BEEN MORE THAN TWO YEARS NOW
THAT YOU'VE ALL BEEN GOING AT
IT AND I JUST WANTED TO EXPRESS
MY APPRECIATION AND I AM
LOOKING FORWARD TO THE PROCESS
AS IT MOVES ALONG NOW THAT IT'S
IN FRONT OF CITY COUNCIL, I
WOULD LIKE TO ENCOURAGE CITY
COUNCIL TO CONTINUE TO MOVE
FORWARD AND TO AND TO THANK YOU
ALL FOR LISTENING TO ALL POINTS
OF VIEW.
I SAW MANY DIFFERENT WHELPING
INS EXPRESSED SOME UNFOUNDED
SOME YOU KNOW, WITH A LOT
OF MERIT.
BUT THROUGHOUT THIS PROCESS AS
I'VE OBSERVED IT, YOU'VE ALL
BEEN VERY GENEROUS WITH YOUR
TIME AND YOU ARE HUMAN BEINGS
AND YOU'VE PUT A LOT OF WORK
INTO THIS AND DO NOT BE
DETERRED SERIOUSLY JUST
CONTINUE THE PROCESS.
WE DO NEED EVEN MORE HOUSING
BUILT IN THIS CITY.
THIS IS BECOMING A CITY LARGER
CITY AND ALL THE THINGS THAT
NEED TO BE PUT IN PLACE
INCLUDING TRANSPORTATION
INCLUDING BIKE INFRASTRUCTURE,
ET CETERA.
YOU KNOW, I COULD GO ON AD
NAUSEUM BUT SUFFICE IT TO SAY
YOU'VE DONE GREAT WORK AND
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, MR. WOULD ANYONE
ELSE LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION BEFORE WE
ADJOURN?
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE PICK UP A REMOTE COLOR I'M
AFRAID NOT TO SAY I'M AFRAID
SO.
ALL RIGHT.
SEEING THAT THERE ARE NO ONLINE
PARTICIPANTS AND THERE ARE NO
ADDITIONAL SPEAKERS IN THE
CHAMBER, I WILL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT THAT BRINGS US TO
AGENDA ITEM NUMBER THIRTEEN
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS.
IS THERE ANY SEEING?
NONE.
I WILL ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO
ADJOURN MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS'S I CANNOT BUY
COMMISSIONER DISH ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY I I OPPOSE THE MOTION
.
>> WE ARE ADJOURNED